### 1.0.6 - 23 June 2016

* Added [fin-hypergrid.min.js](https://openfin.github.io/fin-hypergrid/build/fin-hypergrid.min.js) - omitted from version original release due to a technical issue.
* Updated all "dependencies" in package.json to exact version numbers. Specifically, npm's default version numbers use the semver "^" operator. This operator has been removed in favor of the (implied) "=" operator.
* Fixed cell editor's error feedback count; error explanation now appears after every third failed attempt to save.
* Active column interface methods have been renamed to more accurately describe their function ("VisibleColumns" was already in use in Renderer.js to mean something different) (old methods retained for now with deprecation warnings):
    * `behavior.getVisibleColumn(index)` &#x2192; `behavior.getActiveColumn(index)`
    * `behavior.getColumnCount(index)` &#x2192; `behavior.getActiveColumnCount(index)`
    * `behavior.getVisibleColumns()` &#x2192; `behavior.getActiveColumns()`
    * `dataModel.getVisibleColumns()` &#x2192; `dataModel.getActiveColumns()`
* Added 
* Some extraneous methods have been removed (old methods have generally retained for now with deprecation warnings):
    * Removed `behavior.getVisibleColumnName(index)` &#x2192; `behavior.getActiveColumn(index).name`
    * Removed `behavior.getColumnId(index)` &#x2192; `behavior.getActiveColumn(index).header`
    * Removed `behavior.getHeader(index)` &#x2192; `behavior.getActiveColumn(index).header`
    * Removed `grid.registerCellEditor(Constructor, name)` &#x2192; `grid.cellEditors.add(name, Constructor)`
    * Removed `grid.createCellEditor(name)` &#x2192; `grid.cellEditors.create(name)`
    * Removed `grid.getCellProvider().xxxx` &#x2192; `grid.cellRenderers.get('xxxx')`
    * Removed `behavior.getCellProvider().xxxx` &#x2192; `grid.cellRenderers.get('xxxx')`
    * Removed `behavior.getCellProvider().xxxx` &#x2192; `grid.cellRenderers.get('xxxx')`
    * Removed `behavior.createCellProvider()`. No replacement; do not call. Previously called by `Behavior` constructor; `new CellRenderers()` is now called by `Hypergrid` constructor instead.
    * Removed `grid.registerLocalizer` &#x2192; `grid.localization.add(name, localizer)`
    * However note that first parameter `name` for `cellEditors.add`, `cellRenderers.add`, `localization.add` is not _optional_. If not supplied, class name is used.
* Changed some labels in Column Picker to reflect our actual terminology:
    * Hidden Columns &#x2192; Inactive Columns
    * Visible Columns &#x2192; Active Columns
* `Column.prototype.getCellProperties()` now returns an empty object rather than undefined if there were no cell properties.
* Fixed a defect in the validator generated by the `localization.DateFormatter()` factory function that was preventing successful editing of dates using such localizers.
* Made `column.header` into a getter/setter (local property: `_header`) so that setting header here will update the actual header displayed in the grid, as expected.
* Changed `'number'` formatter default maximum fractional digits to 0 instead of `Intl.NumberFormat`'s default of 3.
* Rather than suppressing formatting all together, best practice is to define your own grid-wide standard (default) format using the localization option on grid instantiation.
* Fixed "row styling" example (demo dashboard checkbox).
* Fixed "Reset" function (demo dashboard button).
* Removed the overly "opinionated" editor/renderer/type render property name cascade. Specifically:
    * Render property 'editor' no longer defaults to render property 'format'; you can add this logic to your `dataModel.getCellEditorAt` override if you want it.
    * Render property 'format' no longer defaults to render property 'type'; you can add this logic to your `dataModel.getCell` override if you want it.
* The `autoPopulate` render property is deprecated; use `{ editor: 'combobox' }` instead. 
* Refactored cell renderer interface calls to parallel the cell editor model.
    * FYI: Note the following conceptual difference between cell editors and cell renders:
        * Cell editors objects are constructors used to create the current cell renderer only when needed
        * Cell renderer objects are instantiated singleton instances
    * Added a new `renderer` property so cell renderers can now be set declaratively, like cell editors, in addition to programmatically.
    * Moved `cellProvider.getCell()` (for programmatically selecting cell renderers) to `dataModel.getCell()` in parallel with cell editor's `dataModel.getCellEditorAt()`.
    * The default value for the renderer property (at the grid level) is 'SimpleCell'.
    * "Cell provider" has been broken up. The API is now a base class called `CellRenderers`.
    * Cell renderers are now separate files; all extend from `CellRenderer` base class.
* The overrideable `dataModel.getCellEditorAt()` method for programmatically selecting cell editors is now called with an additional parameter, `declaredEditorName`. The method may choose to respect or replace this name. It then is expected to either use this name to access a cell renderer constructor from the cell renderer registry _or_ use some other constructor. In any case, it must instantiate and return a cell editor.
* The overrideable `dataModel.getCell()` (formerly `dataModel.getCellEditorAt()`) method for programmatically selecting cell renderers is now called with an additional parameter, `declaredRendererName`. The method may choose to respect or update this name. It then is expected to use it to fetch and return a cell renderer singleton from the cell renderer registry.

Localizers:
* New: `grid.localization` &#x2192; a grid-specific instance of `Localization`
* Renamed (old method retained for now with deprecation warning): `localization.set` &#x2192; `localization.add`
* New: `Hypergrid.localization` &#x2192; a shared defaults for `locale`, `numberOptions`, and `dateOptions` if constructor's `options.localization` object is missing or is missing any of those individual properties.
* Renamed [localizer](http://openfin.github.io/fin-hypergrid/doc/localizerInterface.html) methods so they are more descriptive of their actual functions:
    * `.localize(value)` &#x2192; `.format(value)`
    * `.standardize(value)` &#x2192; `.parse(value)`
* A cell editor's localizer is no longer overridden with 'null' on instantiation, allowing the inherited localizer to be seen. There is now a default localizer 'null' for text cell editors in Textfield.prototype.localizer which simply invokes `toString()` for both `.format()` and `.parse()`.)

Filter plug-in:
* Fixed `grid.setTableFilter()`.
* CQL (Column Query Language, the filter cell syntax) now accepts optional quotation marks and parentheses around operands. Quotation character is escaped by doubleing it. The actual quotation character a shared prop (default is double-quote character).
* CQL now considers operators to be reserved words. User is now warned when operand is missing or an (unquoted/unparenthesized) operand contains additional operators.
* Updated `behavior.setData(data)` &#x2192; `behavior.setData(data, schema)` where the new `schema` parameter is optional. If you don't supply it, it will be derived from the fields list. This parallels the current grid instantiation logic when supplying `data` and `schema` in the options object for the first implicit `setData` call. (The current options object is under review and may be altered substantially in the next sprint.)
* Manage Filters: Fixed some bugs with the CQL and SQL tabs
* Internally, restored `conditionals` formal parameter to filter-tree's `FilterLeaf.prototype.getSyntax` because removing it broke SQL generator. Restored actual parameter in `DefaultFilter`'s call.
* Known issue: Filter does currently searches "formulas" (unformatted data). It does not search "values" (formatted data). (These terms are from Excel.) Searching formatted data would require formatting all the data on every search which is super-expensive. Normally, only visible data needs to be formatted -- a very small manageable number of rows.


### 1.0.3 - 27 May 2016

_Initial release._
